---
title: 'Surviving Winter 2018'
date: 2018-03-15
permalink: /posts/2018/2/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - dartmouth
---

Intro about this term

Classes
------
This term, I took Cognitive Computing with Watson (COSC 89), Systems (ENGS 22), The Making of the Modern Middle East (HIST 90), and a Reading Course in Computer Science (COSC 94). 

**Cognitive Computing with Watson**: This class 



Activities
------
Research with Professor Hassanpour

I continued working part-time for [Protago Labs](http://protagolab.com/), a small artificial intelligence company I also worked for over the summer and into the fall. This term, I gained some exposure to natural language processing through helping out with our generative chatbot. 

I was relatively involved in the Fencing team this term, going to 2-3 practices a week and competing in a tournament as the alternate. This year we got two ridiculously good men's epeeists, so chances I'll get to start in any competitions are slim.

I was not active with the formula racing team this winter, though my friend June Kim is working on self-driving car software which I have occassionally helped out on. 

In finance society, I served as the vice-president of foreign exchange. I chose not to attend many of the recruiting sessions because I was busy, so my involvement was solely leading weekly presentations and market updates for the group. 

Personal
------
Chinese Language House

Girl with the Dragon Tattoo

Dog Sledding

In early February, I went on a dog sledding trip with Dartmouth's South House! Dartmouth's new housing system (which is intended to asf the long-standing fraternity system) receives too much funding for community bonding events, so I and twelve other students selected by lottery were able to go dog sledding for the weekend with the Mahoosuc Guide Service on Lake Umbagog, Maine. We departed from Dartmouth on a Friday night to the Mahoosuc lodge, played cards in the evening, and slept in the heated lodge that night. The next morning, we got dressed, met the dogs, and drove to Lake Umbagog where we split up, with half of us skiing to a campsite on the lake and the other half dog sledding.

Dog sledding was a lot of fun. The weather was great (only around -5 Celcius), the skies were clear, and dogs had so much energy. Each sled had six or seven dogs, and the dogs were very well-trained, following the lead sled and knowing when to stop. In total, we mushed (dog sledded) for about six miles into camp, which took about an hour, as the dogs pulled the sleds at around the same pace as a human running. Once we got to camp, we set up camp, built a campfire on the frozen lake, and broke a hole through the ice to fetch water. At night, we slept in tents (with double sleeping bags), with some students choosing to sleeping outside in the dogsleds.



Closing
------
Overall, xyz. In the spring, I will be working with Dr. Alin Popescu at Oracle's internet intelligence office in Hanover, comuting from White River Junction. Looking forward, I will be studying at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) in Copanhagen for my junior fall, and interning with the American University of Kuwait in Kuwait City for my junior spring in 2019. 




