---
title: 'Winter 2021'
date: 2021-04-1
permalink: /posts/2021/4/blog-post-17/
tags:
  - nlp
  - research
---

Intro

Research
------
EACL submission was accepted
ACL was crazy: UID, survey paper, help Ruibo


PhD
------
I applied to PhD programs again, with low expectations. My low expectations were justified: I got rejected from Stanford, MIT, and UW. 


Fitness
------

**Weightlifting.** 
I started working on shoulders and triceps a bit in early january, but then one day I started getting a worrysome clicking sensation in my left shoulder, which I had had before. This stopped my progress for about a month, bringing me down from my 5x5 bench press from 170 lbs to 145 lbs.

**Tennis.** 
The one thing that I changed about tennis is that I tried to engage in *deliberate practice* by doing mostly drills during practice sessions. Some of the drills that I did included:
* Cross court on "yellow" balls, down the line on "green."
* Returner of feed must hit two forehands in a row.
* 99 bananas: 5 points for winners and points won at net, 10 for overheads. Minus 5 points for every shot hit into the net. Sounds stupid but teaches you not to hit it short.
I also tried to work on volleys and serves every practice.


<video src="/images/IMG_7887.mp4" width="49%" autoplay loop></video>
<video src="/images/IMG_7890.mp4" width="49%" autoplay loop></video>

Learning Danish
------



Making videos
------


Reading
------

### *High Performance Habits* by Brendan Burchard

### *A Field Guide to Lucid Dreaming*
TODO

### *The Institute* by Steven King
This is another paranormal thriller book by Steven King. It was pretty good (but not as good as *Misery*). The good thing was it was not too spooky, so I didn't get the willies as much before bed. 


Who are my heroes?
------


Closing
------



Songs
------



Youtubers
------

