---
title: 'Summer 2021'
date: 2021-10-1
permalink: /posts/2021/10/blog-post-18/
tags:
  - nlp
  - research
---



Research
------


Fitness
------

**Weightlifting.** 

**Tennis.** 


Personal
------

**Making videos.** 

US Open
------

Seeing world class tennis players play in person was a significant experience for me. On the first day for R1, I went with John and Allen to see Nick Kyrgios play Roberto Bautista Agut. We got front row seats in the corner. The match was a bit disappointing, as Kyrgios kept missing his first serves and lost in three sets. Kyrgios actually hits a very smooth backhand and a very hard forehand. Somehow RBA got everything back. It was funny that Kyrgios kept refusing to put his towel back in the towel holder and opted to throw it onto the floor instead. Before that match, we also saw Aryna Sabalenka play Nina Stojanovic, which was a great match (I kinda developed a crush on Stojanovic).  

The next weekend, I made a day trip with Abhishek and Ash to watch Djokovic play Nishikori for R3. We got second ring seats in Ashe stadium, which were around $400. They weren't that close, but they were pretty good seats. Watching Djokovic play was simply inspiring. He's basically a god at the sport, and has mastered every component of the game, both physically and mentally. He lost the first set against Nishikori, but I could tell that he recognized that Nishikori got lucky and that he was still going to win. Djokovic's backhand and strokes on the run are pure beauty. Watching the best tennis player in the world play has inspired me in terms of isolating each component of a craft (whether tennis or research) and mastering them all. Moreover, other people may have strengths, but you should work harder than them and develop even stronger weapons.

My favorite part was really the practice sessions, though. I basically stood at the fence and saw a lot of good players practice. Naomi Osaka hits very heavy shots. Medvedev is tall and hits powerful, low, flat strokes. Simona Halep radiates intensity and focus. Rublev ruthlessly crushes every ball. I also saw Felix Auger-Aliassime, Gael Monfils, Shapovalov, Schwartzman, and Taylor Fritz.

I sat one seat away from Dimitrov's girlfriend and coach. 

Reading
------

### *Lying* by Sam Harris

This essay is a short and sweet argument against lying, especially white lies. 
Lying means intentionally misleading someone when they expect the truth.
The summary of the argument is that (barring extreme situations) telling the truth may cause to uncomfort in the short term, but leads to better outcomes in the long run.

These are the two arguments I found most compelling.

**Honesty as a filter.**
First, honesty acts as a filter for the people around you.
For instance, if a friend asked me to read a manuscript they wrote and I thought it was bad, I might be compelled to lie and say that it's good so I don't hurt their feelings or explain why. 
But upon a closer analysis, it becomes obvious that honesty actually leads to a better outcome. 
Let's say my friend wanted uninhibited feedback on their manuscript. 
By telling them what I thought wasn't great about their work (and this can be done in a nice way!), I've potentially saved them from future rejections or receiving the same criticism from their advisor.
Moreover, next time they send me a manuscript and I say I do like it, they know that it's worth something.
On the other hand, if they are offended that I didn't like their paper, then they won't interact with me further, which is actually a good thing because I do not want to interact professionally with people like that.

**Truth as a mirror.** 
The second reason to always tell the truth is that it holds a mirror in front of yourself.
Let's say that you are canceling a date with a girl because you think she's too fat. 
Lying and saying that your car broke is easy enough, and you wouldn't think about it any further. 
But if you are always honest, you have to comfront the honest truth about yourself, which is, what kind of person are you to not go on the date just because the girl was fat?

At this point, enough people who I admire from various walks of life (Mark Manson, Randy Pausch) have preached the value of honesty that this is a no-brainer for me.


Who are my heroes?
------
- Sam Harris


Human Programming
------
One interesting thought that I've been thinking about is how one could "program" oneself in the spirit of self-improvement.
From a first-principles standpoint, the person you currently are is a function of the sum of your past experiences.
This is analogous to a neural network being a function of the data it is trained on. 

As a concrete example, one who reads the work of great writers every day is likely to adopt the style and thought processes of those writers, leading him to produce high quality writing. 
Conversely, someone whose friends are into alcoholism are more likely to value such activities. 

The action item for me comes from the realization that I consume multiple hours of video every day. 
Some video is obviously much higher quality that other video.
For instance, spending a year listening to Sam Harris podcasts will likely be a better influence than watching all the Kali muscle videos on youtube. 
What if I limited my experience consumption to the content most likely to have a positive influence? 

In this vein, here is a list of what I consider positive influences---specifically, how each person can rub off on me positively.

- TV/Movies
	- **Sherlock** (and The Imitation Game): logic, critical thinking, intelligence, nuance
	- **Killing Eve**: humor, smoothness, European culture
	- **Counterpart**: thinking big, being on the world stage
	- **The Great Gatsby Movies**: live an exciting life, old school America
- Public figures
	- **Elon Musk**: first-principles thinking, long-term thinking, dreaming big
	- **Sam Harris**: consciousness, death, honesty
	- **Conan**: humor, high-energy, wit, intelligence, sociability, quick-thinking
	- **Lady Gaga**: creativity, love
	- **David Goggins**: motivation, hard work, taking things to the extreme
- Youtube:
	- **Bald and Bankrupt**: open-mindedness, worldliness
	- **Thomas Afu**: Chinese and European culture, open-mindedness
	- **Andrew Kirby**: productivity, thinking in terms of time
- Writers:
	- **Steven King**: beautiful writing, high standard of prose, dedication to one's craft
	- **Cal Newport**: productivity, meta-career skills
	- **Mark Manson**: being a desirable person
	- **Anchee Min**: vulnerability, honesty
	- **Brendan Burchard**: the lifestyle described in *High Performance Habits*
- Academics:
	- **Randy Pausch**: time, meta-habits
	- **Henry Lee Smith**: old-school thinking, genuine passion for linguistics
	- **Ryan Cotterell**: linguistics, creativity, "thinking like a scientist", love of learning


Closing
------



Songs
------


Youtubers
------
