---
title: 'Fall 2021: Travels and New Beginnings'
date: 2021-12-31
permalink: /posts/2021/10/blog-post-18/
tags:
  - mountain view
  - emnlp
  - new york
  - google
---

Summary of the term

Personal
------
I finally moved to Mountain View in late October. My mom and her partner drove one of our cars over for me, and we and my brother spent a couple of days. I was happy to be able to show my mom around the Google campus and I could tell she was living vicariously through me. 

Fitness
------

**Weightlifting.** 
<todo>

**Tennis.** 
<todo>


EMNLP
------
It was great to finally travel to attend EMNLP 2021 this year at the Barcelo Bavaro resort in Punta Cana (Dominican Republic).
Though only a portion of the typical number of conference attendees came, I had fun meeting folks from NYU, Hopkins, and Ellie's lab. 
It was particularly great to catch up with Soroush as well.

The resort had some nice amenities and was a good spot for a conference. 
It was very nice that food and booze were included (buffets were OK, one a la carte restaurant Chez Gourmet was amazing, though), and each room had its personal jacuzzi. 
The beach and pool were also great.
I wish I spoke better Spanish to communicate with the staff.

The traveling felt luxurious too, as I had my first first-class flight, something my parents never had a chance to experience. 
With my Amex platinum card, I also experienced the nicer airport lounges for the first time (I had only been to United before).

<insert images>
One of the lounges in the Punta Cana airport had an infinity pool.

New York City
------
It is immediately obvious that New York City stands in stark contrast with Mountain View. 
In many ways, New York is an exciting place bustling with well-dressed women, artsy buildings, and some of the oldest culture in the United States. It is truely the most iconic city in the world.
In other ways, Mountain View is a nicer place to live---warmer weather, no noisy streets, not as much rain, etc.

	
Reading
------

### *In Order to Live: A North Korean Girl's Journey to Freedom* by Yeonmi Park

Park's tells an eye-opening story about how challenging some humans in this world have it.
She gives new insight into starvation, sex slavery
Though oppression because no language

Who are my heroes?
------
The usual suspects:
- Sam Harris
- Conan
- Bald and bankrupt



Closing
------
<todo>


Songs
------
[Impoding the mirage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hrazTo8xVds) by The Killers is soulful.
